In this dangerous era, a Jedi must always be prepared for conflict. 
To know where evil grows and permit it to flourish is to accept 
responsibility for all that follows. Sometimes you have to listen to the 
silence. And give yourself the time to understand. 
There is a thing inherent and natural, which existed before heaven and 
earth. Motionless and fathomless, it stands alone and never changes; it 
pervades everywhere and never becomes exhausted. It may be regarded as 
the creator of the universe. I do not know its name, I call it the 
Force, and I name it as supreme.
Don't you know that if you do evil, evil will come back to you? Out of 
the Great Void came the universe, its galaxies, star systems, and suns. 
Everything that exists, and will ever exist, was spawned from the 
primordial plasma of time's beginning. Over billions of years planets 
formed and life arose through a steady progression of increasingly 
complex organisms. Woven into and intertwined with all of this --- from 
the smallest molecule to the largest star --- was the Force. As 
civilizations grew upon these newly formed planets --- newly formed on a 
celestial time scale, that is --- They began to sense, if only 
subconsciously at first, this mystical energy. Over the millennia the 
Force has been called by an uncountable number of names: The Unity, the 
Way, the Power, Magic. All hint at one aspect or another of the Force's 
all-encompassing presence, but none completely reflect its true nature. 
And perhaps none shall, for the Force defies explanation. At times it 
seems dualistic, yet it has no separate components. Most prominent among 
the contradictions is the fact that the Force has two aspects, the light 
and the dark, yet without one the other would cease to exist. For most 
people these concepts hang well out of reach, celestial nonsense better 
left unconsidered. But for the select few, the Force is everything.
The Jedi is a vessel for the channeling of the positive energies of the 
Force. This power is not something that is derived or conjured, however, 
but ever present in the universe.
Jedi minstrels, a group known for its epic storytelling. The minstrels 
prefer to weave their tales as if the occurrences were happening at that 
moment of the recounting.
The truth or falsity of any individual event will 
forever remain a mystery. Jedi stand for peace; they must use their 
weapons only as a last resort. Concentrate, Feel the Force flow. Not 
outside or inside, but part of all. Through the Force you may see many 
things. It reaches across time and space. Other places, the future, the 
past. Old friends long gone. Size does not matter. A Jedi seeks not to 
know the answers, but to understand the questions. To know is not what 
is important to a Jedi. Even to learn is not important. What is 
important is to study. There is a tale among us, a legend preserved by 
the old tellers from the farthest distance of our past . It is said that 
upon the edge of the Earth at the end of time stands a lone man who 
holds the meaning of it all . It is said that he has mastered all skill 
and prowess that we desire, all restraint and calm, and has become 
perfection --- passion and mastery like onto the poised grandeur of 
mountains. And it is said, should ever one of us seek him out . and 
contest with him, we will learn the measure of our worth, in defeat or 
triumph. Therefore we are a seeking people. In each heart among us beats 
a yearning for this test and the knowledge it offers. Yet the path, 
which leads to him, is unknown, has never been known. It is said that 
this path must not be known --- that it may only be found by one who 
knows without knowledge and has not come seeking the thing he seeks. You 
are that one. The Force is a Jedi's ally, and a powerful ally it is. 
Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. We 
are luminous beings . not this crude matter. You must feel the Force 
around you. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious 
mind. A Jedi's strength flows from the Force. Don't give into hate. That 
leads to the dark side. We cling to many truths; most depend greatly on 
our own point of view. If you do not believe you will succeed. You will 
fail. Fear and confusion are some of the weapons of the Dark side. A 
Jedi must learn to sense the tension between the light and the dark. You 
must remain strong in your commitment. You must preserver, and you must 
always embrace the light side. Do not believe that you can experiment 
with the darkness and come away unscathed. The taint of the dark side 
will remain with you forever after, and the temptations to use that evil 
power will come all that more often and all that more strongly. I say 
these things not to scare you, nor to dissuade you from your training. 
On the Contrary, I wish only to make you stronger in the light by 
offering you the knowledge that so many before you spent their lives 
discovering. Remember that knowledge and the Force will always be your 
shield against the darkness. Do not resist the Role the Force wishes you 
to play, for things are not always what they seem. A Jedi must rely on 
introspection to discover his destiny rather then on outside 
intervention. A Jedi who tries with all his being never fails. It is the 
Jedi who gives up that fails --- Fails not only himself, but the Force 
as well. When you demand something of the Force. Then by your own 
actions, you have proven that you are not ready to commune with the 
Force. One must surrender oneself to the Force and allow it to decide 
your destiny. There is no difficulty. There is only Effort. He who knows 
others is wise; He who knows himself is enlightened. He who conquers 
others is strong; He who conquers himself is mighty. He who knows 
contentment is rich. He who keeps on his course with energy has will. He 
who does not deviate from his proper place will long endure. He who may 
die but not perish has longevity. The Force is our power and our ally; 
The Force has always been with us. That is its nature. It surrounds us 
and penetrates us. It binds the universe together. Those who become 
sensitive to its presence can learn to use it .. For good or for evil. 
Every action, every seemingly insignificant effort --- no matter the 
source --- influenced the future, intertwining and building upon one 
other to create a new state of the universe, which lasted in such 
equilibrium for less then a moment, when it is shattered by the next 
series of actions. A Jedi must learn many things among these things are 
the skills needed to control one's own inner Force. A Jedi with these 
skills learns mastery over the functions of his body and harmony with 
nature. A Jedi must also learn the skills needed to sense the Force in 
other things beyond the Jedi's own body. The Jedi learns to feel the 
bonds that connect all living things; this gives the Jedi the ability to 
understand how all things are interconnected. A Jedi must also learn the 
skills need to change the distribution and nature of the Force. A Jedi 
must learn how to move things with their mind, help others control their 
own Force, or change the Force in the Jedi's own Body, As well as change 
the perceptions of others and make them come to incorrect conclusions. 
Serenity allows a Jedi to view the universe in its true form rather then 
in the shaded perceptions that most others see it in. A wise man always 
walks with his head bowed. Evil began in a time before recorded history, 
when magicians made themselves into kings . and gods . using the power 
of the dark side of the Force. The weak-minded have ever been ready to 
obey one who wields great power. Those who learned the powers of the 
dark side were quick to exploit this weakness --- to make war. Again and 
again the dark side has surged forth, like a storm . devouring whole 
nations and entire civilizations. Those who mastered dark power became 
dark power. They unleashed destruction, for no other reason then selfish 
gain. Some of them, I am ashamed to say, were Jedi. The penetrating 
light dissolves the dark. The gentle wind disperses the gathering 
clouds, leaving the sky clear and serene. The tiny soft roots of the 
wood pierce the hardest rock, breaking up those dark intrigues, which 
shun the light of day. All the while, the whispering music of the wind, 
and the gradual uncurling of the leaves produce tranquility and peace, 
appearing soft, gentle, un-threatening. The results of gentle 
penetration by the wind are less striking then the effects of aggressive 
force, but more enduring and more complete. This principle, wielded by a 
Jedi, is powerful and irresistible. In this age of conflict, law and 
order is often enforced by those who fight only for pay, or by those who 
are willing to seek justice through force. Even after you have mastered 
the basic tenets of the Jedi Way, and you have learned many of its 
techniques, you have only taken the smallest of steps into a greater 
world. Much remains for you to experience. 